Add a readme (#1)
isovalent/gke-test-cluster-operator: README.md

# Test Cluster Operator for GKE

This operator provides an API-driven cluster provisioning for integration and performance testing of software that integrates very deeply with Kubernetes APIs, cloud provider APIs and other elements of Kubernetes cluster infrastructure.

> 

Author: TODO: clarify the status - few changes still needed for someone to deploy it, the project was made OSS as reference

or a basic operator that glues together a handful of Kubernetes APIs. One can use a shared cluster for testing, or run [kind][]
or [k3s][]/[k3d][] within their CI environment.

If the application under test depends on non-namespaced resources, it is possible to use [VirtualCluster][] to isolate different
instances of the app from one another in a shared cluster. But that will only work for the apps that are strictly constrained to
the Kubernetes APIs, i.e. it doesn't make assumptions about cloud provider APIs and doesn't attempt non-trivial access to the 
underlying host OS or the network infrastructure. 

When the application under test does interacts with multiple Kubernetes APIs, and presumes cluster-wide access, and even attempts to
interact with the underlying host OS or the network infrastructure, any shared cluster setup may prove challenging to use. It may 
also be deemed unrepresentative of the clusters that end-users run. Additionally, testing integrations with cloud provider APIs may
have other implications. Applications that enable core functionality of Kubernetes cluster often fall into this category, e.g. CNI

> implementations, storage controllers, service meshes, ingress controller, etc. The shared cluster setting is simply not viable for

Author: I'll go with "Shared clusters are not viable ...", thanks!

> implementations, storage controllers, service meshes, ingress controller, etc. The shared cluster setting is simply not viable for

Author: ```suggestion
implementations, storage controllers, service meshes, ingress controller, etc. A shared clusters is just not viable for
```

> some of these use-cases, and kind or k3d are of limited use.

Author: Yes, the thing is that for testing simple app just having same Kubernetes version maybe sufficient. I'll review this paragraph a bit.

of Kubernetes addons that defines a platform that their organisation relies on. The operations team may not be able to make direct
changes to source code of some of the components in order to improved testability in a shared cluster setting, or they just won't 
have the confidence in testing those components in a shared cluster setting. Even if one version was easily testable in a shared 
cluster, it may change in the future. While testing on kind or k3s remains an option, but may be undesirable due to cloud provider
integration that needs to be tested also, and could be just representative of the deployment target. Therefore, the operations team
may have strong preference to test in a cluster that is provisioned in exactly the same way as the deployment target and has mostly
identical or comparable properties.

These are just some of the use-cases that illustrate a need for getting a dedicated cluster for running integrations or performance
tests, one that matches deployment target as closely as possible.

What does it take to obtain a cluster in GKE? Technically, it's possible to simply write a script that calls `gcloud` commands, or

> relies on something like Terraform or use API client to provision a cluster. This approach inevitable adds a lot of  complexity to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relies on something like Terraform or use API client to provision a cluster. This approach inevitably adds a lot of complexity to
```

> the CI job by inheriting all different failure modes there are to the provisioning and destruction processes, it needs to carry any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the CI job by inheriting all the different failure modes there are to the provisioning and destruction processes, it needs to carry any
```

> additional infrastructure configuration (e.g. metric & log gathering), widens access scopes etc. Aside from that, all of the steps
> take time and that's hard to optimise, it is possible to have a pool of pre-built clusters, yet make the script even more complex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional infrastructure configuration (e.g. metric & log gathering), widens access scopes etc. Aside from all of the steps
that take time and are hard to optimise, it is possible to have a pool of pre-built clusters, yet make the script even more complex.
```

> It is hard to maintain complex scripts of this kind long term, as by nature script don't offers a clear contract (especially the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is hard to maintain complex scripts of this kind long-term, as by nature scripts don't offers a clear contract (especially the 
```

shell scripts). The lack of contract makes it too easy for anyone to tweak a shell script for an ad-hoc use-case without adding any

> tests. Over time script evolution is hard to unwind, especially in a context where many developers contribute to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tests. Over time, script evolution is hard to unwind, especially in a context where many developers contribute to the project.
```

> In contrast, an API offers many advantages - it's a contract, and the implementation can optimised more easily.

Reviewer 2: :+1: This paragraph in particular outlines the dangers and motivation quite well.

### Architectural goals of this project

- Test Cluster API

>   - enables developer and CI jobs to request cluster for running tests in a consistent and well-defined manner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - enables developer and CI jobs to request clusters for running tests in a consistent and well-defined manner
```

The Test Cluster API is aimed to be much more high-level and shouldn't need to expose as many parameters as Cluster API does,
in fact, it can be implemented on top of Cluster API. The initial implementation targets GKE, and relies on [Config Connector][],
which is similar to Cluster API in spirit.

**What about other providers?**

This is something that authors of this project are planning on exploring, albeit it may not be done as part of the same project
to begin with. One of the ideas is to create a generic provider based on either Terraform or Cluster API, possibly both.

## How it works

There is a management cluster that runs on GKE, it has Config Connector, Cert Manager and Contour along with the GKE Test Cluster
operator ("the operator" from here onwards).

User creates a CR similar to this:

```YAML
apiVersion: clusters.ci.cilium.io/v1alpha2
kind: TestClusterGKE
metadata:
  name: testme-1
  namespace: test-clusters

spec:
  configTemplate: basic
  jobSpec:
    runner:
      image: cilium/cilium-test:8cfdbfe
      command:
      - /usr/local/bin/test-gke.sh
  machineType: n1-standard-4
  nodes: 2
  project: cilium-ci
  location: europe-west2-b
  region: europe-west2
```

> The operator renders various object for Config Connector and other APIs as defined in `basic` template, it substitutes the given

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The operator renders various objects for Config Connector and other APIs as defined in `basic` template, it substitutes the given
```

parameters, i.e. `machineType`, `nodes` etc, and then it creates all of these objects and monitors the cluster until it's ready.

Once the test cluster is ready, it deploys the job using the given image and command, and ensures the job is authenticated to run
against the test cluster. The job runs inside management cluster. The test cluster is deleted upon job completion.

> The template are defined using [CUE][] and can define any Kubernetes objects, such as Config Connector objects that define additional

Reviewer 2: Random nit, but is there a difference between specifying links via `[CUE][]` vs. `[CUE]`?

Reviewer: It might be related to not having to provide links to each reference in Markdown (see bottom of the README)

Author: see 'implicit links' in https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#link

> The template are defined using [CUE][] and can define any Kubernetes objects, such as Config Connector objects that define additional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The template is defined using [CUE][] and can define any Kubernetes objects, such as Config Connector objects that define additional
```

GCP resources or some other objects in the management cluster to support test execution. That being said, the implementation 

> currently expect to find exactly one `ContainerCluster` as part of the template and it's not fully generalised.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
currently expects to find exactly one `ContainerCluster` as part of the template and it's not fully generalised.
```

      command:
      - /usr/local/bin/run_in_test_cluster.sh
      - --prom-name=prom
      - --prom-ns=prom
      - --duration=30m
      configMap: test-c6v87-user
      image: cilium/hubble-perf-test:8cfdbfe
      initImage: quay.io/isovalent/gke-test-cluster-initutil:854733411778d633350adfa1ae66bf11ba658a3f
  location: europe-west2-b
  machineType: n1-standard-4
  nodes: 2
  project: cilium-ci
  region: europe-west2

status:
  clusterName: test-c6v87-fn86p
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2020-11-17T09:29:33Z"
    message: All 2 dependencies are ready
    reason: AllDependenciesReady
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  dependencyConditions:
    ContainerCluster:test-clusters/test-c6v87-fn86p:
    - lastTransitionTime: "2020-11-17T09:29:22Z"
      message: The resource is up to date
      reason: UpToDate
      status: "True"
      type: Ready
    ContainerNodePool:test-clusters/test-c6v87-fn86p:
    - lastTransitionTime: "2020-11-17T09:29:33Z"
      message: The resource is up to date
      reason: UpToDate
      status: "True"
      type: Ready
```

## Using Test Cluster Requester

There is a simple Go program that serves as a client to the GKE Test Cluster Operator.

> I can be use by CI jobs as well as developers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It can be use by CI jobs as well as developers.
```

### Developer Usage

To run this program outside CI, you must ensure that Google Cloud SDK Application credentials are setup correctly, to do so, run:
```
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Run:
```

> go run ./requester --namespace=test-clusters-dev --description="<your name and purpose of this cluster>"

Reviewer 2: Probably not necessary to cross this bridge before there's more widespread use but I wonder if it'd be worth autoembedding something like the $USER@$HOST into the description and/or a different field (possibly as a default that can be overridden by CLI or env var). Descriptions will be something that developers skip as soon as they start using this, since they "just want to get a cluster up and running to try something".

Author: So `--description` is required right now when you don't specify an image, as we don't have TTLs yet, so we need to know why some cluster was created and what it is for. When image is specified, test cluster is deleted upon job completion. We have a few issues in the private repo that touch on some of these things, I'll move those over once this PR is done.

```

### CI Usage

> This program supports traditional `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable, but also for convenience it has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This program supports the traditional `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable, but also for convenience it has
```
